Hi, I'm Bronchi Ebelma.
I'm a lead design engineer
working on millicode.
So what is millicode?
It basically is a form of
micro-architecture
that runs on IBMC.
By micro architecture,
I mean there's a layer,
invisible layer between what we
publish in the principles
of operations,
and another layer which
is a micro-architecture.
The reason why we
have that is because,
every generation of z,
the micro-architecture changes.
However, what we published
in the principles of
operation, that does not change.
We add stuff, we
don't remove stuff.
We add new instructors,
we don't remove instructions.
So an instruction that we
introduce 10 years ago,
functionally it does
the same thing,
but micro-architecturely
how it gets to
the answer, is very different.
In millicode, we make
those changes so that
the operating system,
or the user, or the program,
doesn't have to
make those changes.
In addition to
the implemented instruction
set under the
principle operations,
millicode is also involved in
a few other key aspects of IBM Z.
We do system initialization,
which basically means
you power on under system,
go into IMLS steps,
initial machine load,
that's IMO, millicode is
involved with virtualization.
So you have a single
resource system,
and you're going to divide it
up into logical partitions
and run different operating
systems in each partition.
For that to be possible,
you need an instruction that's
called psi or stat
interpretive execution,
and that instruction is
implemented in millicode.
So that's millicode
in a nutshell.
As you can see, the things that
we do on the system is important,
especially for recovery,
for availability,
and for self feasibility.
I've been enjoying
my work in millicode,
and it's been fun journey
so far. Thank you